---
layout: post
title:  "Guide to Removals"
date:   2015-08-22 22:58:07
category: Removals
---
Moving home is generally considered one of the more stressful tasks in anyone’s life, with most people doing this a few times as they make their way up the property ladder. It does not need to be though and by choosing the right removal company and taking the time to carefully plan a move it is a job that any homeowner can successfully arrange. The following are some of the things to consider when moving to a new property.

Choosing a Removal CompanyPicking the right removal company is an essential step when it comes to moving home. Obviously you should pick DB Moves, as we are fully experienced and qualified to carry out home moves and will check the credentials of the company’s they represent. By choosing a us or another registered removal company, you can be assured that they will be working with someone that understands what is required for a successful move. Other questions to consider asking a company before entering a contract include:-• What insurance cover do they have in place if problems do occur?
• Can they provide a written quote for the work?
• Is their quote all inclusive and if not what extra costs may be incurred?
• What experience do they have?
• Can they provide a basic plan for how they will carry out a move?
• Who is the contact person a customer should deal with?
Most good quality registered removal companies will be able to provide answers and assurances to put a customer’s mind at ease. Getting them on board at an early stage is also common sense since they have experienced staff that can offer advice to help a move run as smoothly as possible. It also allows them to schedule the work to suit your needs so that they are definitely available on the day of the move.

Costs to Expect

Cheaper is not necessarily better when it comes to the cost of moving, so don’t automatically opt for the lowest quote. It is better to look at the services being offered for the money being paid then decide what best suits your needs. Some of the factors that can affect the cost involved in moving home include:-

• The number of vehicles needed to transport your belongings.
• The size of the removal crew required.
• The distance of travel between your old and new property.
• Whether you want packing as well as transportation services.
• How quickly you want the move to be completed.
• Whether you move at peak or off-peak times.

It is best to ask a removal company to provide a written quote that spells out in detail the services they are offering and the costs they charge for this so that you fully understand what to expect from them for the price you are paying. A member of staff should visit your home to see what is involved for a move as this allows them to provide a more accurate quote of the cost.

Planning for the Move

Apart from hiring a removal company, there are a number of other tasks that need to be considered in the run up to moving day. It is a good time to have a look through your belongings and decide which to take. The majority of people will be hoarders to a certain extent and moving home is a great time to have a clear out of belongings that you no longer require. This means there will be less to pack and take with you to a new home. Unwanted items can be given to friends and family that want them, offered to a charity shop, or simply disposed off.

Once you have an idea of just how much you will be taking it is then possible to start finding the moving materials needed to pack these safely for transportation. This can include supplies such as boxes, bubble wrap, foam beads, tape, and cushion foam. Removal companies can offer customers these types of materials and may also provide packing services so it is worth asking if they do. If you plan to pack yourself then there are specialist suppliers that offer packing and storing supplies and other places to look for them include office supply retailers.

Packing Belongings

It is important to start packing your belongings as early as possible and spread it out over a few weeks rather than trying to cram it all into a couple of days. This ensures you have the time available to pack properly so that there is less chance of damage occurring.

Any items that can be packed into a box should be as breakages are more likely to happen to loose items. Make sure that belongings are packed tightly into a box so that they do not rattle around. Using filler material such as foam beads is a common sense idea for more fragile items as this provides additional protection that should help keep them safe. Once a box is filled, seal it with tape and make a quick note of the contents and the room it is from. This is not only useful for when you unpack, but also gives the removal company staff an idea of what they are dealing with so they can take the appropriate care and put it in the correct place in your new home.

Establish a plan of how you plan to pack and stick with it as much as possible. Moving from room to room to box up belongings is a sensible option. There are obviously essential items that it is not possible to pack until the last moment, but try to have non-essential belongings packed and ready before the day of the move. Most removal companies are quick and efficient at getting belongings from your home to their vehicles and it therefore makes sense to have things ready for them as much as possible.

Larger items may need to be dismantled so that it is possible to get them out of a property. When this is the case it is best to try and do this prior to the day of the move. The night before is generally the best for dealing with bigger items like beds, dining tables, and sofas so they are ready and waiting to be transported.

Moving Day 

Packing of essential items should be completed as early as possible on the day of the move itself. This can include utensils, plates, kettles, medicine, toiletries, clothes, and other belongings that will be needed quickly once you move. The boxes with these should be the last thing a removal company takes out of your old property and the first they take in your new home.

Once the removal crew has loaded the vehicles take the time to have a last look round to make sure everything has been picked up. The last thing you want is to leave any of your possessions behind so do a thorough inspection before you leave for the final time. Inform the removal company staff once you have the keys to your new property so that the journey can be made.

If a floor plan is available for your new home it is sensible to give a copy of this to the removal company workers so that they have an idea of the layout of the rooms. This can make it easier for them identify what goes where when they unload your belongings. Having boxes and furniture put in the correct room straight away will make things a lot easier when it comes to unpacking your belongings to furnish your new home.

While damage is unlikely with a professional crew doing the job, accidents can happen and it is worth carrying out a quick inspection once your possessions are unloaded. Registered removal companies will have insurance to deal with any damage caused so it is best to bring their attention to any problems you do find as quickly as possible.

Moving home can be a challenge and it is a job that most people will be faced with at some point during their life. The information above provides some guidance on how to go about this in a successful manner. With a reliable removal company and some sensible planning it is an experience that any property owner can easily get through to enjoy life in their new home.